.\"$Id$
.TH crossfire 0.93.1 "January 5, 1997"
.SH NAME
CrossFire - multiplayer adventure and arcade game for X-windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crossfire
[-<options>][-display display]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I CrossFire
is a multiplayer graphical arcade and adventure game made for the X-Window
environment.
It has certain flavours from other games, especially Gauntlet (TM) and
Nethack/Moria.
Any number of players can move around in their own window, picking up / using
items and battle monsters.  The players all do battle in the same world,
and can communicate with each other (even fight with each other).
The goal of the game is to survive and to have FUN.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -arch <filename>
Sets the archetypes file name.  The library directory is prepended to
this name.  See FILES below for more information.
.TP
.B -b
Use black & white colors even if you have a color display.  Note that if you
are using XPM mode, I believe you will still get color images even with this
flag.
.TP
.B -chrfont <fontname>
use fontname instead of the normal crossfire font.  This is a compile time
option and may not be available in your version.
.TP
.B -csport <port number>
Specifies the port that should be used for the new client/server code.  This
is a compile time option
.TP
.B -d, +d
-d causes it to print out some debugging messages.  +d disables debugging
messgaes.  See -mon below for even more debugging messages.
.TP
.B -detach
This will cause crossfire to detach from the tty.  It is only an option
if SERVER code was compiled in.
.TP
.B -display <display>
Open a window on the specified display.  Multiple display options can
be given to open on numerous displays.  This option can also be of use
if -l is given.
.TP
.B -f
Crossfire will only flush, and not attempt to synchronize all windows.
This means that the game will crash if someone kills their window, but
the game will not lock if someone freezes their window.
This option is recommended if the game seems to be slow due to many
participating players.
.TP
.B -fontdir <directory>
Sets the font directory location.  See FILES section below for more details.
.TP
.B -h
Prints out usage of flags.
.TP
.B -l
Removes the local player (whatever the DISPLAY environment variable is set to)
from the list of players
.TP
.B -lib <directory>
Sets the library directory location.  See FILES section below for more details.
.TP
.B -listen_port
Specifies the port the server should listen to.
.TP
.B -log <file>
Specifies a file to send output to.  Only has meaning if -detatch is specified.
.TP
.B -m -m2 -m3 -m4 -m5 -m6 -m7 -m8
 -m dumps out monster statistics.
 -m2 dumps out abilities.
 -m3 dumps out artifact information
 -m4 dumps out spell information.
 -m5 dumps out skill information.
 -m6 dumps out race information.
 -m7 dumps out alchemy information.
 -m8 dumps out more alchemy information.

Note that only one of these can be given, as crossfire exits after it dumps
out the information.  These flags are typically used by the spoiler and
other scripts to always get up to date values - as such, not all of them
are in the most human parseable form.
.TP
.B -maps <directory>
Sets the maps directory name.  The library path is prepended to this
name.  See FILES section below for more details.
.TP
.B -mon
Turns on monster-debugging.  This means that all messages that the game
gives to the monsters is written to standard error.
.TP
.B -o
Prints out info on what was defined at compile time.
.TP
.B -p
Crossfire won't try to fix the fontpath if it can't find the fonts it needs.
.TP
.B -pix
Crossfire will use only pixmaps instead of fonts.
Note that if this switch is not given, and crossfire fails to set the
font, it will try using pixmaps anyway.
.TP
.B -playerdir <directory>
Sets the player directory name.  The library path is prepended to this
name.  See FILES section below for more details.
.TP
.B -s
Displays the highscore list.
.TP
.B -score <name or class>
Displays all highscores with a matching name or class.
.TP
.B -server
Puts crossfire into server mode.  This means that the program will not
try to open up a window on a display, but instead wait for connections.
.TP
.B -split
Makes splitwindow default (see the resource for information).  This used
to be the -w option
.TP
.B -tmpdir <directory>
Specifies a directory to use for temporary storage (mostly swapped
out maps.)  See FILES below for more information.
.TP
.B -treasures <filename>
Sets the treasures file name.  The library directory is prepended to
this name.  See FILES below for more information.
.TP
.B -uniquedir <directory>
Sets the unique item directory name.  The library directory is prepended to
this name.  See FILES below for more information.
.TP
.B -v
Prints out version, authors and contributors.
.TP
.B -xpm
Uses X Pixmaps (XPM) files instead of fonts or bitmap files.  They look
nicer, but the game will take longer to start up, and may be slower.  This
is also a compile time option.
.SH RESOURCES
.TP
.B name
Specifies which name your character will start with in Crossfire.
You have to choose a name, either this way or with the "name" command, if
you want to enter the highscore list.
.TP
.B peaceful
You can turn this mode on or off with the strings "on"/"off".  Default
is on.  If the mode is turned on, you will push other players instead of
attacking them when you run into them.  The mode can also be toggled
inside the game with the "'peaceful" command.
.TP
.B berzerk
If this mode is on, the player won't stop in front of a monster if you
hit CTRL + direction.  Instead s/he will continue fighting the monsters
until a wall is met.  Default is ON.
.TP
.B wimpy
The argument to this resource sets your wimpy percentage.  When your
hit-points get below this percentage, you flee in panic from your
enemies.  Default is 25%.
.TP
.B scroll
Default is off.  If scroll is turned on, the text window will scroll
instead of wrapping.  The mode can also be toggled inside the game
with the "'scroll" command.
Please note that the scroll-option is buggy.
.TP
.B splitwindow
Default is off (unless switch -split is given).  If this is turned on, all
windows will be under the control of the window manager.  That is, they
can be placed in any order, and some can be resized.
.TP
.B pixmap
Default is off (unless switch -pix is given).  If this is turned on,
crossfire will not try to set your fontpath, but instead use pixmaps.
Note that crossfire will try pixmaps if it fails to set the fontpath.
.SH PLAYING
When you have rolled your stats and chosen a profession, you can
type `?' at any time to get information about the different keys.
.PP
The apply command (bound to key `a') is used for several things, like
wearing, removing, wielding, unwielding, drinking, eating, etc.
If you hold down Shift while pressing `A', you will apply the
object below you.  This is the only way to enter a house.
.PP
In addition to the direct commands which are bound to different keys, you
can also type more complex commands by pressing the '-key first.
To get more information about these, try typing "'help".
.PP
Your goal is to gain experience, find treasure, explore and have fun.
You do this by figuring out puzzles in maps, killing monsters and
destroying generators.  You loose by dying.
.PP
There are two ways of dying, one is to loose all hit-points
(usually fighting monsters), the other is to starve to death.
Remember to eat when hungry.
.SH MOUSE CONTROL
You can do several things by using only the mouse.  In the inventory-window,
you can examine, apply and drop things by clicking the different mouse-buttons.
In the look-window you can do mostly the same, except you pick up items instead
of dropping them when you click the right mouse button.  In both windows
you can move the scrollbar in different ways by clicking the different
mouse-button on it (but only if there are more items than can be displayed
in the window).  In the graphical window, you can click at places with
the left button to find out what is there, or with the right button
to move in that general direction.

.SH FILES

This is a list of some of the files used by crossfire.  Many of these can be
altered using the -lib, -fontdir, -playerdir, -maps, -arch, -treasures, and
-uniquedir options, or using environmental variables.  These values have
defaults that are compiled on, and can only be changed at runtime if the
game was not compiled with SECURE defined.

In the case where both an environmental and command line option is given
for the same file, the command line option is used.

.TP
.B FONTDIR
This is where the crossfire font is stored.  It can be changed with the
environmtal variable CROSSFIRE_FONTDIR or with -fontdir.  If an incorrect
path is given, crossfire will use pixmaps instead.
.TP
.B LIBDIR
This is typically the key directory, and is where most of the files reside.
Its default value is determined at compile time.  The environmental
variable CROSSFIRE_LIBDIR and -lib can be used to change this value.
.TP
.B TMPDIR
This directory is used to store temporary maps that are swapped out
of memory.  It can be changed with CROSSFIRE_TMPDIR environmental
variable or the -tmpdir option.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/archetypes
Global objects which can be inherited are stored here.  The environmental
variable CROSSFIRE_ARCHETYPES and -arch can be used to change this name.
Note that LIBDIR is always prepended to the given name.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/artifacts
Rules and abilities for turning normal item into special artifact items.  At
present time, there is no way to change this at runtime.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/ban_file
File for banning certain sites.  It can not be changed at present time.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/forbid
If the game is closed due to working hours, information is in this file.
IT can not be changed at present time.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/maps
Files and subdirectories containing the map files.  The environmental
variable CROSSFIRE_MAPDIR and -maps can be used to change this.  LIBDIR
is always prepended to the value given.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/motd
Message of the day, is written to players when theey start the game.  A
different file can not presently be specified at runtime.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/players
This is a directory where the save files are stored (unless compiled
with SAVE_HOMEDIR).  It can be changed with the environmental variable 
CROSSFIRE_PLAYERDIR or the -playerdir option.  LIBDIR is always
prepended.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/treasures
Linked lists of random treasure (& abilities!) which can be given to different
monsters are kept here.  The environmental variable CROSSFIRE_TREASURES and
-treasures option can be used to override this value.  LIBDIR
is always prepended.
.TP
.B LIBDIR/unique-items

This directory is used for unique item code (compile time option.)  It can
be changed with the environmental variable CROSSFIRE_ITEMSDIR or -uniquedir.
LIBDIR is always prepended.

.SH MAILING LIST
There are two mailing-lists dedicated to the developement and
bug-testing of crossfire.  The first is for discussing bugs and
features, the second is for announcing new versions.
.PP
If you want to join or leave any of the lists, send mail to
crossfire-request@ifi.uio.no with the subject "subscribe",
"unsubscribe","subscribe announce" or "unsubscribe announce".
If you use the subject "subscribe" or "unsubscribe" you will
(un)subscribe to *both* lists.
To send messages directly to the list, mail crossfire@ifi.uio.no.
An archive of old messages can be found at the ftp-sites (see below).
in the file crossfire.mail.Z
.SH FTP
The official ftp-sites where you can look for the latest versions are:
.PP
    ra.pyramid.com: /pub/crossfire (129.214.1.102)
    ftp.ifi.uio.no:/pub/crossfire (129.240.64.4)
    ftp.real-time.com/pub/games/crossfire (206.10.252.12)
    ftp.cs.city.ac.uk:/pub/games/crossfire/ (138.40.92.3)
    ftp.sunet.se:/pub/unix/games/crossfire (130.238.127.3)
    ftp.cs.titech.ac.jp:/pub/games/crossfire (131.112.90.201)
.PP
Please use the one nearest to you.  ".no",".uk" and ".se" from Europe,
".au" from Australia
and ".com" from USA.
If anyone sets up other sites, please notify me.
.SH BUGS
If the game looks very chaotic, it is probably because you are using
a font belonging to a previous version instead of the one supplied
with this version.
.PP
Please let me know about any bugs you find in the game.  I know there are
plenty of them, and some are mentioned on the TODO file which is supplied
with the game.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1994,1996,1997 Mark Wedel (mark@pyramid.com)
.PP
Copyright (C) 1992 Frank Tore Johansen (frankj@ifi.uio.no)
.PP
Authors and contributors to this program (source):
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
mark@pyramid.com (Mark Wedel)
frankj@ifi.uio.no (Frank Tore Johansen)
kjetilho@ifi.uio.no (Kjetil Torgrim Homme)
tvangod@ecst.csuchico.edu (Tyler Van Gorder)
elmroth@cd.chalmers.se (Tony Elmroth)
dougal.scott@fcit.monasu.edu.au (Dougal Scott)
wchuang@athena.mit.edu (William)
ftww@cs.su.oz.au (Geoff Bailey)
jorgens@flipper.pvv.unit.no (Kjetil Wiekhorst J\(/orgensen)
c.blackwood@rdt.monash.edu.au (Cameron Blackwood)
jtraub+@cmu.edu (Joseph L. Traub)
rgg@aaii.oz.au (Rupert G. Goldie)
eanders+@cmu.edu (Eric A. Anderson)
eneq@Prag.DoCS.UU.SE (Rickard Eneqvist)
Jarkko.Sonninen@lut.fi (Jarkko Sonninen)
kholland@sunlab.cit.cornell.du (Karl Holland)
vick@bern.docs.uu.se (Mikael Lundgren)
mol@meryl.csd.uu.se (Mikael Olsson)
haatanen@cc.lut.fi (Tero Haatanen)
ylitalo@student.docs.uu.se (Lasse Ylitalo)
anipa@pulmunen.cs.tut.fi (Niilo Neuvo)
mta@modeemi.cs.tut.fi (Markku J{rvinen)
meunier@inf.enst.fr (Sylvain Meunier)
jfosback@darmok.uoregon.edu (Jason Fosback)
cedman@capitalist.princeton.edu (Carl Edman)
henrich@crh.cl.msu.edu (Charles Henrich)
schmid@fb3-s7.math.tu-berlin.de (Gregor Schmid)
quinet@montefiore.ulg.ac.be (Raphael Quinet)
jam@modeemi.cs.tut.fi (Jari Vanhala)
kivinen@joker.cs.hut.fi (Tero Kivinen)
peterm@soda.berkeley.edu (Peter Mardahl)
matt@cs.odu.edu (Matthew Zeher)
srt@sun-dimas.aero.org (Scott R. Turner)
smurf@soda.berkeley.edu (Scott MacFiggen)
tpeland@utu.fi (Tero Jyri Michael Pelander)
raytrace@soda.berkeley.edu (Rachel Yotter)
huma@netcom.com (Ben Fennema)
njw@cs.city.ac.uk (Nick Williams)
Wacren@Gin.ObsPM.Fr (Laurent Wacrenier)

.ft R
.RE
.LP
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.

.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.

.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

.\" The author can be reached via e-mail to frankj@ifi.uio.no.
